---
title: API Specification
description: This document outlines our API design standards and conventions. We'll use the /pets collection for illustrative purposes.
---

This document details the API design standards and conventions our team must adhere to. The guiding principle here is simplicity, consistency, and leveraging HTTP methods for their semantic meaning.

# HTTP Methods

Each HTTP method describes a specific action:

**GET**: Retrieve a resource or a collection of resources
**POST**: Create a new resource
**PATCH**: Partially update a resource
**PUT**: Fully update a resource
**DELETE**: Remove a resource

## Collection Resource Example (/pets)

**GET** `/pets`: Retrieves a list of all pets. Returns a JSON array of pet objects, each with a unique `id`. Example:

```json
[
  {
    "id": "8166cbcc-d2e0-4c65-b695-d3408825d48a",
    "name": "Bella",
    "breed": "Jack Russel",
    "age": 2,
    "color": "White and Brown"
  },
  {
    "id": "8166cbcc-d2e0-4c65-b695-d3408825d48a",
    "name": "Patch",
    "breed": "Golden Retriever",
    "age": 3,
    "color": "Black and White"
  }
]
```

**POST** `/pets`: Creates a new pet. Consumes and returns the same payload structure as a GET request, excluding read-only fields like `id`. On successful creation, returns a `201` status code. Example request body:

```json
{
  "name": "Cody",
  "breed": "Boston Terrier",
  "age": 1,
  "color": "White and Black"
}
```

## Single Resource Example (/pets/{id})

**GET** `/pets/{id}`: Fetches a single pet by its `id`. Example response:

```json
{
  "id": "8166cbcc-d2e0-4c65-b695-d3408825d48a",
  "name": "Patch",
  "breed": "Golden Retriever",
  "age": 3,
  "color": "Black and White"
}
```

**PUT** `/pets/{id}`: Fully updates a pet by its `id`. This operation expects all fields to be present in the request. Example request body:

```json
{
  "name": "Sparky",
  "breed": "Labrador",
  "age": 4,
  "color": "black"
}
```

**PATCH** `/pets/{id}`: Partially updates a pet by its `id`. This operation allows for partial data, updating only the provided fields. Example request body:

```json
{
  "age": 4
}
```

**DELETE** `/pets/{id}`: Deletes a pet by its `id`. This operation should return an empty body with a `204` status code.

## Path and Payload Naming Conventions

- Resources should never use numeric ID's - Only UUIDs should be used.
- Paths should use kebab-case (lowercase with hyphens), such as `/pet-owners`.
- Verbs should not be used in path names; the HTTP method describes the action.
- In payloads, all keys must use snake_case, such as `hair_color`.
- All API responses must be in JSON format.

## Error Handling

Validation errors should return a `422` status code.

Errors should contain a `message` object. Example error response:

```json
{
  "message": "The given data was invalid.",
  "errors": {
    "name": ["The name field is required."]
  }
}
```


## Date and Time Formatting
Dates or timestamps should follow the format in the user's JWT `datetime_format` claim.
If `datetime_format` is not available, default to `d M Y H:i:s`.
Timestamps should use the timezone from the user's JWT `timezone` claim. If timezone is not present, use `UTC`.

## Documentation
* All endpoints must be documented according to OpenAPI v3 standards.

By adhering to these guidelines, we ensure that our API remains consistent, intuitive, and aligned with common practices, making it user-friendly and maintainable.
