---
title: API Documentation
description: Welcome to the documentation for our API! Our API is a REST API and utilizes a secure and efficient bearer token authentication system.
---

### Authentication

The MikroCloud API uses a bearer token authentication system, which requires users to include a valid access token in the header of every request. This provides a secure way to authenticate requests and ensures that only authorized users can access the API.

### Supported Formats

The MikroCloud API only supports JSON for data transfer. All data is returned as JSON objects, and requests should include the `Content-Type: application/json` header.

### Base URL

The base URL for all API requests is:

```
https://api.mikrocloud.com/
```

### HTTP Methods

The API supports the following HTTP methods for managing resources:

| Method   | Remarks                                            |
| -------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`    | Used to retrieve a resource or a list of resources |
| `POST`   | Used for the creation of a resource                |
| `PUT`    | Used to perform an update on a resource            |
| `PATCH`  | Used for partial updates                           |
| `DELETE` | Used to delete a resource                          |

### REST Paths

The API conforms to REST paths for the management of resources. This means that resources are identified by URLs that reflect their structure, with different HTTP methods used to manipulate them.

### Rate Limiting

Most endpoints in the MikroCloud API have a rate limit of 60 requests per minute. If you exceed this limit, you will receive a `429 Too Many Requests` response code.

### Data Validation Errors

If you make a request that fails validation, the API will return a JSON object with a `422 Unprocessable Entity` response code.

### Conclusion

With this API documentation, you can get started building your own applications that interact with MikroCloud's services. We hope this documentation is helpful and if you have any further questions, please don't hesitate to contact our support team.
