---
title: How it works
description: This guide will help you understand our service for managing MikroTik devices running RouterOS.
---

Our solution offers an efficient way to perform device management and service insertion by utilizing both asynchronous and synchronous API calls.

## Bootstrapping

Bootstrapping is the process of preparing a MikroTik router to be managed by our service. This is done by issuing a single command in the terminal of the device, which adds a scheduler to the router. This scheduler runs every 30 seconds and is responsible for enabling communication between the router and our API.

## Asynchronous API

Our asynchronous API is a scheduler that runs on the MikroTik device every 30 seconds. This API is authenticated by an AES256 bit token and securely transmits a JSON payload containing various health indicators, such as:

- CPU usage
- Memory usage
- Disk usage and health
- General stability and jitter of the router's internet connection

These health indicators act as a heartbeat, which allows us to monitor the router's performance and gather insights into its connection stability. Additionally, we can obtain information about the connecting ISP from the IP address of the device.

## Asynchronous Configuration Changes

Our system can elect to send asynchronous configuration changes to the router during every heartbeat. In this case, we respond to the router's heartbeat with a hex-encoded RouterOS script to execute a specific task. This mechanism is used more commonly than the synchronous API to effect changes to the router.

## Management VPN

Once the router is bootstrapped, we add a management VPN tunnel to the device. This VPN allows our automation systems to connect to the router synchronously using the built-in MikroTik API.
[Read more...](/documentation/router-access/the-management-vpn)

## Synchronous API

The synchronous API is used in conjunction with the management VPN to allow our automation systems to connect to the router and manage it in real-time using the built-in MikroTik API.

## Reliability at Scale

When a router checks in with us (has a heartbeat), it runs the fetch tool and performs a `POST` to `api.mikrocloud.com`. Our MikroTik API is a highly available and performant microservices architecture that leverages serverless code technologies. This provides a consistent management channel for a large number of MikroTik routers.

By using our service, you can efficiently manage and monitor your MikroTik devices with ease, ensuring optimal performance and stability for your network infrastructure.
