---
title: Bootstrap and Adoption Guide
description: This guide explains the process of bootstrapping and adopting a MikroTik router to use with our management platform.
---

We will cover the following topics:

1. Running the bootstrap command
2. Adopting the router using the Service Orchestration Portal (SOC)
3. Changes made to the router after adoption
4. Security and data handling

## Running the Bootstrap Command

To bootstrap your router, paste the following command in your router's terminal:

::rsc

```
/tool fetch url="https://api.mikrocloud.com/bootstrap" dst-path="mikrocloud.rsc";
/import mikrocloud.rsc;
```

#copyable

```
/tool fetch url="https://api.mikrocloud.com/bootstrap" dst-path="mikrocloud.rsc";/import mikrocloud.rsc;
```

::

This command will connect to our provisioning API and perform the following tasks:

- Create a deployment instance on our platform
- Place the deployment in an "adoption" state
- Install a scheduler on the MikroTik router

### Important notes:

- The script assumes the rights of the user who pastes it.
- The user must be logged into the router with full access.
- It won't cause a problem if the user associated with the scheduler is altered or deleted later.

After executing the script, an activation code will be displayed. This code must be used in the Service Orchestration Portal (SOC) to "adopt" the site.

## Adopting the Router using the SOC

The router will write activation instructions, including the activation code, to the log every 30 seconds until the site is adopted. Use this code in the SOC to complete the adoption process. <a href="https://app.mikrocloud.com/new" target="_blank">Open SOC</a>

The scheduler will make authenticated API calls using the fetch tool to `api.mikrocloud.com`, receiving a hex-encoded RSC script, which it will import to perform the required actions.

## Changes Made to the Router After Adoption

After adopting the router, the following changes will be made:

- A management VPN tunnel is added.
- A control-plane filter (firewall rules and management service restrictions) is installed to securely manage the router through the management VPN.
- A user called `mikrotik-api` is added for the exclusive use of our automation systems.
- A configuration backup is taken.

**Note**: We only make alterations to the input chain of the firewall configuration, which will not interfere with the data path (i.e., it cannot affect users routed through the device).

Bootstrapping and adoption can be performed without service disruptions. However, if the MikroTik router is not running a supported version of RouterOS, there may be a service interruption. Ensure your router is running a supported RouterOS version before performing the bootstrap.

## Security and Data Handling

No user data will be transmitted to MikroCloud. Data collected is solely for managing the device.

Configuration backups may contain sensitive information like passwords or secrets (e.g., VPN users, IPSEC PSKs). Backups are performed over the management VPN tunnel, which is AES128 bit CBC encrypted. Backups and sensitive information are encrypted at rest using AES-256 and signed with a message authentication code (MAC) to ensure data integrity.

## Summary

By following this guide, you can successfully bootstrap and adopt your MikroTik router with our platform. This process ensures secure management, compatibility with a range of network configurations, and minimal disruptions to user traffic.

## Price

This service is billed per hour, please refer to pricing for SD-WAN Enablement.
