---
title: Is the system safe?
description: This document aims to address concerns about the security of our MikroTik provisioning system.
---

We take various measures to ensure the security of our application and infrastructure and make a consistent effort to ensure a consistent experience for users.

## Application-Wide Security

### Serverless Microservices

All our code is executed on serverless microservices, eliminating always-on VMs susceptible to port scans and CVE exploits.

### REST API-First Approach

Our application is REST API-first, meaning every interaction occurs through an API call. Our API uses encrypted bearer tokens for request authorization.

### AWS Global Accelerator and DDoS Mitigation

All requests are routed to api.mikrocloud.com, which resolves to a set of AWS Global Accelerator anycast IP addresses which are present with single-digit latency in 177 countries. We use AWS for DDoS mitigation.

### Load Balancer and Web Application Firewall

Traffic is forwarded to a highly available load balancer, where we employ a Web Application Firewall (WAF) to mitigate various risks. Only payloads passing security checks are delivered to our application.

### Payload Validation and Authorization

At the application level, we follow best practices for payload validation and authorization. We use SingleStore as a database provider, connecting via PrivateLink—a private connection that doesn't traverse the internet.

### Inter-Application Calls and API Keys

Our inter-application calls are authenticated by individual API keys and further restricted to our NAT gateways' IP addresses.

---
## Infrastructure Security

### CI/CD Pipelines and Code Verification

We use CI/CD pipelines to deploy code, ensuring only verified code enters the production environment through Pull Requests. We perform various tests before approving and merging PRs.

### Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)

All platforms, including Slack, GitHub, AWS, SingleStore, and Vapor, are protected by MFA.

### EC2 Instances and Access Restrictions

We minimize the use of EC2 instances in favor of serverless code. Any EC2 instances we use are restricted to predefined IP addresses. VM instances are ephemeral and unmanageable (SSH disabled), created through scaling operations.

### Third-Party Well-Architected Reviews

Our AWS infrastructure undergoes third-party Well-Architected Reviews after significant changes.

### Data Encryption

All data is encrypted in transit and at rest.

### Denial-of-Service Attack Mitigation

We follow industry-accepted methods to address denial-of-service attacks, and all our service endpoints are rate-limited.

### Event-Sourced Approach and Auditability

Our application employs an event-sourced approach, allowing full auditability and point-in-time recovery of data.

### Collaboration with Stryve Secure

MikroCloud collaborates with Stryve Secure, a shareholder and award-winning cybersecurity company. We work closely with their team to align our security behavior with SOC2 and ISO27001 standards.

### Secure Payment Processing

We do not store payment information. Financial transaction processing is securely handled by Stripe.

### Microservice Isolation

Microservices do not share databases or database credentials. Only one microservice contains PII — the AAA (Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting) API, hosted in a PCI DSS-compliant environment.

---
## Data Privacy

MikroCloud is a business incorporated in Ireland and, as such, is subject to the stringent data protection regulations laid out in the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Being fully aware of the potential consequences of the [US Executive Order 12333 (EO-12333)](/privacy/eo-12333) and the [Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act Section 702 (FISA702)](/privacy/fisa-702) for its users, MikroCloud takes these concerns seriously, especially considering its primary hosting provider is Amazon Web Services (AWS) (a US based company). MikroCloud is dedicated to safeguarding user data and ensuring compliance with GDPR by implementing appropriate measures, such as Standard Contractual Clauses and supplementary safeguards, to protect the personal data transferred to and processed by AWS. This proactive approach to data protection ensures that MikroCloud's users can trust the company with their data and enjoy a secure experience.

## Summary

Our MikroTik provisioning system prioritizes security through various application and infrastructure measures, such as serverless microservices, REST API-first design, AWS GA's and WAF's, CI/CD pipelines, and our collaboration with companies like <a href="https://stryvesecure.com/" target="_blank">Stryve Secure</a> and <a href="https://www.futuralis.com/" target="_blank">Futuralis</a>. This ensures a secure and reliable provisioning experience for our users.
