---
title: Executive Order 12333
description: Safeguarding MikroCloud Users from EO 12333.
navigation: false
---

In addition to ensuring the privacy of user data from potential access under [FISA 702](/privacy/fisa-702), MikroCloud also takes necessary steps to protect its users from the impact of <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executive_Order_12333" target="_blank">Executive Order (EO) 12333</a>. In this article, we will briefly explain EO 12333 and describe the measures implemented by MikroCloud to protect its users' data from this executive order.

## What is EO 12333?

Executive Order 12333, signed by U.S. President Ronald Reagan in 1981, establishes guidelines for the United States Intelligence Community's foreign intelligence activities. EO 12333 empowers U.S. intelligence agencies to collect, retain, and disseminate information related to foreign intelligence and counterintelligence. While the order primarily targets foreign entities, it has raised concerns regarding the privacy and protection of data belonging to individuals and organizations.

## How MikroCloud Protects Users from EO 12333

MikroCloud has implemented various privacy and data protection measures to safeguard user data from potential access under EO 12333.

## Key Measures to Protect User Data:

1. **Data Encryption**: All user data is encrypted both in transit and at rest, ensuring that even in the unlikely event of unauthorized access, the data remains secure and unreadable.

2. **Restricted Access**: MikroCloud follows the principle of least privilege, granting access to user data only to authorized personnel on a need-to-know basis. This minimizes the risk of unauthorized access or disclosure of user data.

3. **Compliance with Data Protection Regulations**: MikroCloud adheres to various data protection regulations, such as the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which sets strict standards for data protection and privacy.

4. **Data Processing Agreement (DPA) with AWS**: As mentioned in the previous article, MikroCloud has established a DPA with Amazon Web Services (AWS) to ensure user data protection. This agreement includes specific provisions that restrict AWS from accessing user data without MikroCloud's explicit permission and mandates compliance with data protection regulations.

5. **Network Security and Monitoring**: MikroCloud employs advanced network security measures and continuously monitors its systems to detect and respond to potential security threats. These measures help protect user data from unauthorized access and potential surveillance.

By implementing these measures, MikroCloud demonstrates its commitment to protecting the privacy and security of its users' data. We continuously strive to ensure that our infrastructure and processes align with industry best practices and global data protection standards, safeguarding our users from the potential impact of EO 12333 and other data privacy concerns.
