---
title: The Management VPN
description: This guide explains the use of our management VPN and its features. The VPN provides secure, real-time access to your routers, even in challenging network environments.
---

## Management VPN Overview

Our management VPN is an AES128 bit encrypted SSL tunnel that connects to `api.mikrocloud.com` on `TCP` port `8443`. We use this VPN for real-time read and write operations on the router. It offers the following benefits:

- High resilience in NAT environments
- Anycast IP addresses for intelligent routing based on network health and geolocation
- Real-time access to the router for Winbox or SSH
- Secure log ingestion, SMTP collection and traffic flow services
- Automated API operations

## Simplified Management in NAT Environments

The underlying VPN technology we use (OpenVPN) ensures that our management tunnel remains highly resilient even in NAT environments. This makes it easier to manage devices behind NAT without additional configuration.

## IP Address Space for Management VPN

Our management VPN makes use of the private address space specified in RFC 6598 (`100.64.0.0/10`). This ensures that the address space won't conflict with RFC 1918 private LAN networks or public IP addresses.

The VPN tunnel is established on TCP port 8443, which is effective at punching holes in NAT environments.

## Benefits of RFC 6598 Private Address Space

Using the RFC 6598 private address space provides the following benefits:

- Avoids collisions with commonly used private LAN networks (RFC 1918)
- Ensures compatibility with a wide range of network configurations

## Anycast IP Addresses for Intelligent Routing

The VPN tunnel connects to api.mikrocloud.com, which resolves to either `75.2.118.244` or `99.83.188.232`. These IP addresses are anycast addresses that intelligently route VPN connections to our aggregators based on network health and geolocation of the MikroTik router.

While the IP address of the tunnel will be selected from the `100.64.0.0/10` range, the network address can be in a different range. For this purpose, we use IP addresses from our own ASN, which will be one of the following:

| Network Address | Remark                      |
| --------------- | --------------------------- |
| 154.66.115.251  | Used by WAN failover        |
| 154.66.115.252  | Used by WAN failover        |
| 154.66.115.253  | Used by WAN failover        |
| 154.66.115.254  | Used by WAN failover        |
| 154.66.115.255  | Used for management tunnels |

## Price and Activation
This service is automatically activated when a router is bootstrapped and is included in the cost of the SD-WAN Enablement service.
