---
title: Transient Access
description: Transient access leverages our existing management VPN to enable users to establish a direct connection to MikroTik routers. This provides temporary, secure access for users to manage their devices using tools like Winbox or SSH.
---

Transient access is a unique feature that allows users to gain temporary access to their MikroTik routers through the management VPN. When activated, it creates an ephemeral port forward and a temporary user on the router. The benefits of transient access include:

- Secure access to routers, especially those located behind NAT
- Time-To-Live (TTL) can be configured by the user
- Automatic termination of port forward and removal of temporary user once TTL expires

## How Transient Access Works

1. **Activation**: User activates transient access through our management platform.
2. **Ephemeral Port Forward**: We create a temporary port forward to the user's router through our AWS management infrastructure.
3. **Temporary User**: A temporary user is created on the router for login purposes.
4. **Time-To-Live**: The user can configure the TTL for their access.
5. **Termination**: Once the TTL expires, we terminate the port forward and remove the temporary user from the router.

## Benefits of Transient Access

Transient access offers several advantages when managing MikroTik devices:

## Security

Transient access provides a secure way to manage MikroTik devices. By creating temporary users and port forwards, you minimize the risk of unauthorized access. Furthermore, the automatic termination of access once the TTL expires ensures that connections are not left open unnecessarily.

## Summary

Our management VPN and transient access features offer a secure and convenient way to manage your MikroTik devices. With high resilience in NAT environments and the ability to create temporary, secure connections, our solution simplifies device management while maintaining a strong focus on security.

## Price and Activation
This service can be activated in the Service Orchestration Portal (SOC) and is included in the cost of the SD-WAN Enablement service.
